Added eventing tutorials to docs (#14706)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-eventing/evnt-05-send-legacy-events.md

---
title: Publish legacy events using Kyma Eventing
---

Kyma Eventing also supports sending and receiving of legacy events. In this tutorial we will show how to send legacy events using the Eventing Services.

> **NOTE:** It is recommended to use [Cloud Events specification](https://cloudevents.io/) for sending and receiving events in Kyma.

## Prerequisites

1. Provision a [Kyma Cluster](../../02-get-started/01-quick-install.md).
2. (Optional) Deploy [Kyma Dashboard](../../01-overview/main-areas/ui/ui-01-gui.md) on the Kyma cluster using the following command. Alternatively, you can also use `kubectl` CLI.
   ```bash
   kyma dashboard
   ```

> ## Create a Function

Reviewer: In the other three tutorials, this section has the headline "Create a Workload". Why is it different here? The following line is identical for all four tutorials.

In general, I wonder whether the four nearly identical sets of instructions should really be maintained four times. If Busola changes their UI, you'll need to remember updating four instructions instead of just one. I recommend avoiding that.

Author: I updated it to `Create a Function`. Also, now removed it from some tutorials where possible and referring to the instructions given in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: That sounds great, thank you!

   - **Application name**: `myapp`
   - **Event name**: `order.received`
   - **Event version**: `v1`

   - **Event type** is generated automatically. For this example, it's `sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.received.v1`.

4. Click **Create**.
5. Wait a few seconds for the Subscription to have status `READY`.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

Run:
```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: eventing.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Subscription
   metadata:
     name: lastorder-sub
     namespace: default
   spec:
     sink: http://lastorder.default.svc.cluster.local
     filter:
       filters:
       - eventSource:
           property: source
           type: exact
           value: ""
         eventType:
           property: type
           type: exact
           value: sap.kyma.custom.myapp.order.received.v1
EOF
```

To check that the Subscription was created and is ready, run:
```bash
kubectl get subscriptions lastorder-sub -o=jsonpath="{.status.ready}"
```

The operation was successful if the command returns `true`.

  </details>
</div>

## Publish a legacy event to trigger the workload

> We created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.received.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR. Now it's time to send an event and trigger the Function. In this example, we'll port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) Service to localhost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You created the `lastorder` Function, and subscribed to the `order.received.v1` events by creating a Subscription CR. Now it's time to send an event and trigger the Function.
```

> 1. Port-forward the Event Publisher Proxy Service to localhost. We will use port `3000`. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Port-forward the [Event Publisher Proxy](../../05-technical-reference/00-architecture/evnt-01-architecture.md) Service to localhost, using port `3000`. Run:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl -n kyma-system port-forward service/eventing-event-publisher-proxy 3000:80
   ```

> 2. Now publish an event to trigger your Function. In another terminal window, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Publish an event to trigger your Function. In another terminal window, run:
```

title: Publish legacy events using Kyma Eventing
---

Kyma Eventing also supports sending and receiving of legacy events. In this tutorial we will show how to send legacy events.

> **NOTE:** It is recommended to use [Cloud Events specification](https://cloudevents.io/) for sending and receiving events in Kyma.

## Prerequisites

> 1. Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) mentioned in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the [prerequisites steps](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#prerequisites) in the Getting Started guide.
```

> 2. Create a Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function) given in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function) in the Getting Started guide.
```

## Verify the legacy event delivery

> To verify that the event was properly delivered, check the logs of the Function by following the [instructions](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery) given in the getting-started guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the event was properly delivered, check the logs of the Function (see [Verify the event delivery](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery)).
```
